# X509 certificate collector 
X509 is a list of configurations used to check certificates on filesystem. This option can be used multiple times in the configuration file.\
This option starts recursively walking through directories to find all files that have a specified part of the filename in the `match` option and tries to parse them.

## Overview
```
x509
{
    name first_context;
    path /etc/ssl;
    match .crt;
    period 60s;
}
x509
{
    name second_context;
    path /etc/nginx;
    match .pem;
}
x509
{
    name third_context;
    path /etc/kafka;
    match .jks;
    type jks;
    password jkspass;
}
```

## name
Specifies only the context name.\
This does not affect anything in the context of collecting metrics; it is solely a key used to update fields of the x509 context by the Alligator API.

## path
Specifies the starting path to recursively parse and walk through the directories to find certificates.

## match
Specifies the part of the filename to treat the file as a certificate and parse it.

## period
Specifies the period of time to repeatedly parse certificates in the context. The default value is `10s`.

More information about units that user can specify in configuratino can be obtained from configuration [doc](https://github.com/alligatormon/alligator/blob/master/doc/configuration.md).

## type
Possible values:
- pem
- jks
- pfx

This option can control the method used to parse certificate files for this context. The default value is `pem`.

## password
Specifies the passphrases to open PFX/JKS archives.

## Examples of use

### For monitoring PEM certs
```
x509
{
    name nginx-certs;
    path /etc/letsencrypt/live;
    match .crt;
}
```

### For monitoring JKS certs
```
x509
{
    name kafka-certs;
    path /etc/kafka/;
    match .jks;
    type jks;
    password 123456789;
}
```

### For monitoring PFX certs
```
x509 {
    name pfx;
    path /app/src/tests/certs;
    match .pfx;
    password 123456;
    type pfx;
}
```
